[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We've had the good fortune
in our work of getting to teach,
and train, and travel all over
the world and teaching about
wealth, and money, and beliefs.
And the very most common belief
that we have found in our world
travels--
and it doesn't
matter what culture
it is, whether it's Russia, or
Greece, or Japan, or Europe,
or the US.
The most common
belief is you have
to work hard to make money.
And the thing is that
that's just a belief.
It's not true.
>> A scarcity mindset tends to
be self-perpetuating when we do
get into the fear mode.
And to step away from that
is literally a leap of faith.
It requires that we
first look at ourselves.
And most people aren't
taught to do that.
>> Another common belief
that people seem to have,
at least that I've run across in
my private work that I do with
people-- my private coaching--
is that you need a college
degree to get ahead.
And so I've worked with
several people over the years
where they had a belief
that because they didn't
have a college degree,
they could never
create what they want.
They could never
have what they want.
And years ago, I worked with a
woman who had that very belief.
And so we changed the belief--
or she changed the belief to,
I can create whatever I want.
And it comes quickly
and easily to me.
And a couple of months
later, after she
had changed that
belief, she contacted
me to tell me that all of
her dreams were coming true,
that she'd actually
bought a house.
And her dream was
to have a house
and to turn that into
a training center.
And so her basement was big
enough that she could do that.
And the basement
opened up to a lake.
And it just seemed like
everything was working for her
after she changed that belief.
And she reported back that it
made such a huge difference
to let go of that.
And so they're just beliefs.
And they're really powerful.
And once you begin to change
them, you can create anything.
>> One of the things that a lot
of my schoolmates said when I
went to Scotland for
school is they said.
yeah, you got to watch
out for the sheep.
They're constantly surprised.
And I said, what do
you mean by that?
He says, they have
such bad memories,
that everyday they're surprised.
They'll be there.
And they'll see the sun.
And they go, oh,
there's the sun.
And then the sun will disappear.
And they'll go, oh,
the sun is gone.
And the next morning, they've
forgotten about the sun.
They didn't even
know the sun existed.
And suddenly, this big,
fiery ball comes out.
They go, oh, my gosh.
What is that thing?
And they're like, wow.
And they were looking
at this thing.
This is incredible.
Then they kind of
forget about it.
And it goes.
And this keeps on
happening every day.
They just constantly
surprise themselves.
And it's amazing how much
we as humans every day
constantly surprise
ourselves that we're still
in the same situation we were
in yesterday, without realizing
at any moment we can just
say this isn't necessary.
We can actually be a
very different person.
>> What we really found is when
we explored the beliefs that
people had that held them
back or kept them from being
successful, they're all about
beliefs about themselves
and what they were capable of.
And that's where it's at.
>> The quest, the question,
is this all there is?
Isn't there more?
Isn't there a better way?
That's what propels
us forward to continue
to seek the state of abundance.
>> But I'd say the majority
of people never make the first
step, that they are
stuck in the same way--
do the same thing over and over.
Like they say, the
definition of insanity
is doing the same
thing over and over
and expecting a
different result.
And people do that all the time.
And they don't even
realize it or realize
that it could be any
different, because they
don't know any different.
>> The other thing is once you
have a belief system in place,
you're in it.
And you can't really
change it until you
get some distance from it and
take a look at what it is.
Like in our trainings,
we spend a lot of time
helping people become conscious
of their limiting beliefs.
And really, you can learn
a lot about yourself
if you really take a
half day and explore
your personal history and
what your belief structure is,
what your parents believed
and start saying, well,
how does that impact me now?
So it's like stepping back
from it, getting a sense of it
out there.
If you don't do that, if you
don't take that opportunity
to take a look at
your thinking to go--
in other words, to go
beyond your thinking,
look back at it, you could
be stuck in it forever,
because it's just that
reality that you're in.
>> For me, it was really
helpful when I went to Japan,
only because I removed
myself from my conditioning.
I went to a completely
different culture
and lived there for five years.
I was able to get some serious
distance between myself
and the conditioning I had
taken on in my childhood.
And many of the
things that I saw
as beliefs that were
held by people in Japan
in the Japanese culture were
very different to the beliefs
that I had taken
on in my childhood.
Neither one of those sets of
beliefs are necessarily true.
But I was at least
able to see clearly
that different cultures,
different people have
very different beliefs.
And different beliefs can lead
to very different outcomes.
That helped me to see that
I needed to choose carefully
what I believed if I wanted
to influence my outcome.
If I wanted to get the
same thing I'd always got,
then I didn't need
to do anything
with respect to my beliefs.
But if I wanted a
different outcome,
then I needed to
change what I believed.
>> There's been a lot of
research done with lottery
winners, people who win the
lottery or where they come
into a lot of money.
And then within a
couple of years,
they're completely bankrupt.
And it's like their inner
world doesn't match what's
happened on the outer world.
And who they are as a
person at the identity
level and their self-worth can't
sustain that level of wealth.
And so they unconsciously
sabotage that experience
of winning the money.
And they eventually
become bankrupt.
And so it's really
important to make sure
that there's a true
alignment between who
you are as a person at
the level of identity
and also, your beliefs
about money and wealth.
Because another scenario
that really often happens to
people is that they'll begin
to make a lot of money.
And then sabotage will kick in.
And they'll do something that
will sabotage their success.
And that sabotage is directly
related to their beliefs
about who they are in the world.
>> It wasn't until I saw that
the belief was driving that
cycle and went inwards
and changed the belief,
over-wrote the belief to be one
that didn't need to have this
constant cycle of gain and loss.
It wasn't until I did that,
that the cycle stopped.
And I was able to
grow my wealth,
and continue to grow
my wealth, and not
have to experience growth
and loss, growth and loss,
and not really get anywhere.
>> When I was a little kid,
I remember I had this little
bank.
It was a car.
And I put my little coins in it.
And one day, I decided--
I was four years old, and opened
it up, and get my money out.
And I took the
money out and went
to a store that was four
or five streets away
and came back and probably
had candy all over me.
And my mother said,
where'd you get that?
And she said, did
you get in your bank?
And I said no.
But she knew I did.
And I got in trouble.
And I thought, I made
up a belief about that,
that I thought, well,
money is for other people.
I thought it was mine,
but it's not mine.
So I went through
life thinking--
not considering
things that would
have to do with money,
or abundance, or wealth,
but trying to make it
up in some other way,
like getting more education,
or being more of service,
or finding some other path.
And later I realized-- and
when we started working
with beliefs, I changed that.
And I asked my mom about it.
And I said, were you angry
that I broke in the bank?
And she said, oh, no.
She said, I was angry that
you crossed three big streets
without permission.
That you were--
it was dangerous.
So what I read as anger--
and it wasn't my money--
was really fear.
You could have gotten hurt here.
>> I think it's very important
to notice the things that you
need to work on and to pay
attention to those things.
So if you notice that you
have a problem asking for help
or if you notice that you
have a problem in any aspect
of your life or your
business, that once
you start noticing
that pattern, you're
going to start seeing it
repeated over and over again.
And just paying attention
to and naming the problem
can help you just
as much as anything.
>> Would you drive
your children crazy?
Would you drive your
children into doing
things that are going to
break their bodies down,
their health down, their
sense of peace down?
We wouldn't do that
to our children,
but we do it to ourselves.
We do it to ourselves,
because we're
thinking one day in the
future, I'll be free
when I've done X, Y, and Z.
>> Once you start getting an
idea of what your limiting
belief is, if you step back
and watch yourself and listen
to yourself as though you're
at a distance saying it,
often you get a whole
new perspective on it.
And if you were to give
that self over there that's
making that statement some
advice, would you do it?
Another thing that
I think could be
helpful is to say, well,
if this belief is true,
the belief I'm holding to be
true, would I teach kids this?
Would I go down to
the elementary school,
gather up all the six-year-olds
and say, OK, kids,
you'll never have what you like.
You'll never have what you want
because you don't deserve it.
We would never do that.
But that often can
convince some part of us
that this limiting belief
isn't worth holding any longer.
>> People question their
deservingness a lot.
I know I did.
And I think people think that
extraordinary abundance only
comes to extraordinary people.
And probably nobody feels
like they're extraordinary,
unless they're some
kind of megalomaniac.
[LAUGHTER]
But most people feel
like they're just
an ordinary, normal person.
I feel like I'm just an
ordinary, normal person.
>> I think the first thing is to
recognize that anything you are
struggling with is something
that somebody else is
struggling with.
And as soon as you
see that, you can
start to think
about how you might
help other people with
this thing you struggle
with, whether it's your
confidence or an external thing
like your studies or health.
If you're struggling
with something,
if you can open up to see
all the other people who
are having this
difficulty, you will
start to see a way that
you can help others.
And when you do that,
you will get out
of this narrow,
uncomfortable, tight space
that you're in right now.
>> When you start to
make that shift mentally,
that's when huge things occur.
So make sure you're working
on yourself every day
to get that mental
shift going, so you
get a little bit more positive
and a little bit more negative.
And you'll see massive changes.
>> The good news is what's
more challenging than changing
the belief is identifying it.
Once you can identify it,
it's pretty easy to change.
>> So I think a big
part for me, at least,
of the shift to abundance,
to a feeling of abundance,
to an abundance mindset is when
you can really start to see
the--
when you can look
in any situation
and see multiple possibilities.
In other words, you're faced
with a challenge, a problem
that you can see.
I think whoever can see the
most possibilities wins.
And to me, that was
a monumental shift.
[MUSIC PLAYING]